Nomads in trouble? Recall them!
If you have a well functioning village with plenty of housing, food and jobs, you may attract some nomads to join your village!
You can buy and sell resources at the marketplace. Build one!
Increasing your population will also increase your influence bar.
Fire elementals can't swim.
Take good care of your doggos.
The outpost and barracks gain a small tower when upgraded to maximum.
Good Doggos can help out the village sometimes.
Specters can walk through almost anything and are highly resistant to physical damage.
Corruption spreads slowly on the map, the more corruption and corrupted buildings on the map, the more monsters will spawn at night.
Villagers can die of old age! But they'll live a little longer if you take care of them.
Don't forget to build water sources for villagers.
Press Shift+F2 to take a screen shot of the entire map, it will be placed in your screenShots folder in Rise to Ruins install directory.
You can hold left shift while using tools, like the brush, road placement, road, building and many others to lock the mouse axis and draw straight lines.
Nomads will sometimes visit your region and try to become citizens of your village. You can increase the chance they'll appear by building a large village with plenty of housing and defenses.
Essence can be sucked into your hand, increasing your influence bar.
You can adjust the amount of desired workers for a job by using the workforce tab on the left side of the GUI and pressing the plus and minus buttons for that job.
Villagers need food! Don't forget to build some farms.
Can't figure out how to play? Read the in-game tips!
Skeletons can't catch on fire.
Slimes like to split into more slimes, they can become a hassle real quick!
Having trouble surviving past day 3 or 4? Build some Bow Towers.
Trouble breeding? Give your villagers some free time, and plenty of housing.
You can pause the game by clicking on the clock or pressing the pause hotkey (Default: Spacebar)
Try to create choke points in your village designs so monsters have trouble getting in.
Don't completely wall yourself in! You'll regret it.
There's always friendly fire, try not to accidentally hurt anyone.
Magic towers need essence, build Essence Collectors!
A Lumber Mill is needed to refine logs into boards, used for many advanced buildings.
A Stone Cuttery is needed to refine rocks into stones, used for many advanced buildings.
A Crystillery is needed to refine crystals into crylithum, a very important fuel source.
You can disable in-game tips in the settings menu.
You can change hotkeys and various other settings in the settings menu.
You can take a screenshot by pressing F2, it'll be saved in the screenshots folder.
You can hide the GUI by pressing F4.
Game crash? There's crash logs in the logs folder. Send it to the developer!
Many buildings require refined materials, check the requires of a building before you place it!
In-game tips are your friend, read them!
Villagers being swarmed by monsters? Cast recall or banish!
Builders will only harvest materials if they need to build something. If you want to create a stockpile, build a harvesting building!
Farmers only need to be told what wild resources to gather, once they have a farm running they'll take care of it on their own.
Villagers may burst into flames randomly in the summer if they get too hot for too long.
Villagers sometimes freeze rock solid if they're extremely cold for a long period of time.
Make sure you stockpile food for the winter!
Motivate Land is a lot less effective in colder weather.
Villagers unhappy? Don't overwork them!
The best time to use Motivate Land is when the weather is warm, and it's raining.
Most towers can shoot over most walls. Use this to your advantage!
Running out of food in the winter? Stock up! In an emergency you can use the grab spell to pickup unharvested food outside your village.
Did you know the grab spell can grab unharvested materials on the map? Handy when you need resources in a pinch.
Villagers need homes to cool off in the summer, and warm up in the Winter.
Starving in the winter? Use the grab spell to grab food that's otherwise inaccessible.
Labor Golems are really handy early game to haul around some extra resources.
Spring is usually the best time to grow food.
Food and trees are not the only thing that stop growing in the extreme hot or cold, crystals too!
Most towers can shoot over low walls, try building a monster maze!
Villagers warm up when they work, this is great in the Winter but terrible in the Summer.
Want to move faster? Build a Way-Maker Shack and get some roads going!
Over time, natural paths will pop up in areas your villagers walk around in often.
Roads decay slowly over time, make sure you have a few way-makers around to repair them!
Roads decay faster in the rain.
Basic paths don't last very long, consider putting up a proper road system!
Running out of building slots? Upgrade your Camp or build some Ancillaries early.
Need refined resources faster? Build an extra building for it.